# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the Property class?

## In console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby Property object into the database?

## In properties.sql

Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?

## Lines 13, 22, 31, & 33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a Property object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

## We don't define the id at this point because it is created in the database using the PRIMARY KEY constraint. It is defined when a new row is created and is unique to that exact row of values.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the property id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby object?

## The property id is assigned on line 32 of property.rb. It is assigned by calling .prepare followed by exec_prepare on the database which accesses the array of hashes. [0] is used to access the first index of the array followed by ['id']for the PRIMARY KEY.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an ‘if’ clause) on the @id attribute in the constructor?

## This is to say only add the id to @id if it exists in the database.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others, class methods?

## It doesn't make sense for a single instance of the class to be asked, for example, a Read out of all instances. Therefore, it makes more sense for this method to be called on the entire class itself. In the case of delete, you may want to delete all using a class method or delete one instance, using an instance method.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by db.exec() and db.exec_prepared(), and how do we index into it to pull out a desired attribute?

## These will return an array of hashes. Access the desired attributes in the array by using [0] to access the index followed by the key string (e.g "id") to accesste value that it is paired with.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

## We use prepared statements for added security. This makes an SQL query two step instead of one and replaces the values in the sql statment with placeholders ($1 etc). The sql statement is then followed by the values in sequential order.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the Property class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

## id and address respectively

Q11. What are their return values?

## find_by_id will return an array while find_by_address will return a hash
